so a super common question that I see in
all sorts of companies whether your
startup your software or bootstrapped or
you have funding or whatever is this
question of SEO versus SEM and that's
what we're going to talk about today if
you're new here I'm Brendan Hufford I've
started and sold a few online businesses
I'm the creator of SEO for the rest of
us and I'm also the director of SEO I
lead the SEO team at Directive where we
do search marketing for you know just
huge enterprise brands that are amazing
like Allstate betterment Samsung and
kind of companies like that what I want
to share with you today is a short clip
of an interview I did with Bill King my
buddy bill we were at Dress runs SEO and
organic search and instead of just
giving you a hot take of like hey you
should do paid you should do organic
like there's no all-encompassing answer
so what he's gonna give you here is a
super smart framework of thinking
through this whole idea of what to
prioritize how do I do how do I decide
what to do first if I'm in charge of
both SEO and PPC which is under the
umbrella biz SEM is search engine
marketing it's both pieces paid and
organic he's gonna walk you through the
framework of how he decides and how he
prioritizes
especially in a culture like drift where
they move fast and the stakes are high
so let's check that out
you know if there was like somebody was
watching this or listening to this and
they were a new startup or something
what would you recommend them like based
on your experience prioritizing first
like if they're like look we don't know
whether to prioritize SEO or
pay-per-click we can only really pursue
one right now where is the answer both
like what would you what do you think
that about that that that's actually a
really interesting because I I think
that there is only so much time and I
think you have to be just super real
with yourself like if I had a full week
let's just say you work a 60-hour a week
and the amount of time that you spend we
try to push as many meetings out of our
calendars as humanly possible just
because of the the culture of moving
quickly you need to just have a real
conversation with here for yourself and
think about like the amount of time and
effort it takes to actually do things
that have impact also you need to be
real about what scales and what does it
write so there are like traps in your
day
you have to try to avoid or tactics you
of youth you should you might have to be
but you want to try to avoid those types
of things I would say like number one
you need to understand where is the
business happy and how are you gold
against that right so if you walk into a
place and that's moving as quickly as we
are let's let's take it as an example
and you're like hey I'm an SEO expert
even though I'm responsible for you know
SEO and paid and I'm gonna go ahead and
start building a bunch of stuff for SEO
and you might that might be the net
long-term greatest ROI but you need to
have context for like what your
expectations are and how you can add
value right so when you're you're
creating this this backlog and scoring
and prioritizing you need to have some
kind of like override right
so I actually usually have an extra I
use the PI framework which is similar to
the ice framer so PI stands for
potential importance ease those are my
freezer to ten scores and I average
those out but I also have like an
ability to like tag things that are just
time-based that are very important to
the company right so I think just like
you have to really really dig into these
things and like how much actual time is
it going to take how much actual impact
and yeah this there's no like I think
this is probably the the most discussed
thing in like the growth world I don't
think there's a perfect answer I don't
think I have it perfect yet and then
there's still plenty of things I wish I
could do or things that I maybe should
be working on but that's the process
getting better every day and you know
trying to make sure that you have the
engine running so yeah I think that's
also really a more helpful answer than
you just being like oh it's paid
the answer is paid just to get first
like that's super hopeful like having a
framework cuz I think that's what most
of people would want to do they just
want to give the hot take and it's like
no no like here's how to actually think
about it you know I guess going back to
the poker analogy you need to spread
your bets out right if you go all-in on
one or two or three three things and one
of them fails you're in deep deep
trouble right so I would think about it
like a portfolio I have these long shots
long hairy hard things to do and then it
got these short bets that I can easily
quickly
bang out that'll help you get to my
goals so I I try to have a balanced
portfolio and I think that's actually
the better way to describe it then just
a backlog with prioritization right so
so there you have it again that's just a
short clip of my full interview with
Bill if you want to check out the rest
of the interview there are links in the
description below both to the rest of my
interview with Bill all the other parts
there's about 10 to 13 videos and then
also a playlist just for breaking out
SEO PPC SEM and things like that
here's here's my core takeaways first
make sure you go through like figure out
what's gonna take the most time and
effort to get things done make sure
you've ironed out the traps in your day
that our time syncs and then once you've
got those figured out there's three
things to consider first where's the
business at right now and how are you
gold against that you know how are you
responsible for moving the business
forward do you even know where it's at
right now second use one of the two
frameworks that bill mentioned high
potential importance ease rank
everything you want to do based on those
or you can use the ice framework which
is what we use a directive which is
impact confidence and ease either those
frameworks will work you just have to
make sure you're using one of them and
then third I love the poker analogy we
didn't talk about it in this clip but
Bill is just an absolutely amazing poker
player spread out your bets
make sure you're not putting all of your
eggs into one basket so to speak so let
me know in the comments below what's
working for you right now what what are
you finding success with in PPC in SEO
if you want to learn more from Bill and
from me make sure you check out our
playlist again there's playlist with the
rest of my interviews with Bill also
more playlists around SEO PPC and SEM in
the description below but if you're
super passionate about SEO like I am
make sure you check out SEO for the rest
of us join my free newsletter Brendan
Hufford comm slash newsletter link is in
the description with off the other links
somebody calls to action Brendan I don't
know I just want you to get more on this
video if you're like hey I want to learn
more and I want to see it learn more
from you Brendan subscribe to the
channel check it out check out the other
playlists and I would just love to have
you as a member of the SEO for the rest
of us community if you feel like SEO is
overwhelming and confusing and you feel
like most of the blogs aren't giving you
the straight truth SEO for the rest of
us
for you then finally make sure you check
out if you are again passionate about
SEO and you make videos like me or
podcast like me and you want to turn
that content into content on your blog
and on your website written content
that's going to get traffic from Google
organically make sure you check out pod
reach or comm there my partner that's
who makes all the blog posts 400 days of
SEO com Jackie and her team at pod
researcher calm highly highly recommend
them if you want to turn video and audio
content into organic search content so
check out those videos in the
description below and I'll see you in
the next episode of 100 days of SEO
[Music]